---
layout: post
title: A year of neuroscience
subtitle: Working at the Fairhall lab.
date: ""
published: false
---

## Thankful for a year of neursocience

One day back in 2013, I got a follow-up survey from the National Science Foundation that helps them track academic outcomes of their former participants. I don't remember exactly what I wrote, but I said I was backpacking around the world while taking online courses**, and that I really wanted to do a post-bacc research year in a neuroscience lab.

Soon after, I got an email from the NSF employee who read my response that illuminated the path to do a postbacc in any of thousands of labs in the U.S.-- provided I could write a convincing research grant.

The start of the path was a few weeks of reading NIH R01 grant abstracts and pestering my friend (with access to the journals through work) to send me journal articles. I'd spend my days in Thailand staring at math equations with a blank expression and getting lost in a jungle of Wikipedia tabs.

Finally, I pick the coolest research and email the principal investigator:

"Yo, teach! My name is blah blah and I have a pretty CV and I think your research is totally dope and would love to work for you. I want to apply to this NIH grant which would have them pay me a salary AND give your R01 supplement funding. Would you be willing to sponsor me? I am totally not writing this sitting in the dirt in Mae Sariang, Thailand, outside an elementary school principal's office to use their WiFi."

Then I followed the advice of all my friends in grad school: I didn't give up emailing that professor until she responded. Four months and many emails later, she invited me to attend a computational neuroscience conference she was running. As luck would have it, I was going to be in Seattle that week to embark on a 1,000 mile bicycle tour.

We interviewed, we wrote, we applied, I bit my nails, and the grant was awarded!

I've been working in the Fairhall lab for a little over a year now, and it has been a great experience. It has been a rough year, 




**on places like [Coursera](http://) and MIT's [OpenCourseware](http://)
*** Thank you thank you thank you to Lisa Peterson at UW. I am fortunate for your guidance, and so gratful for sending me that email! 