---
layout: post
title: My story around (re)starting the blogging
subtitle: Excerpt from Soulshaping by Jeff Brown
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/thumb.png
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [blogging, writing]
---

Recently, I regained my old domain name which was lost long ago because I had ignored my domain registrar’s warning email over their database revamp or something (being super-busy with some stuffs). Thanks to them; they gave me my old domain, responding to just an email. Between this and that, and even before and after, I have been constantly juggling along with the learning curve of the digital skills, school teaching, and the wider phenomena- education, development, globalization, and what else?

Let me first come to my digital skills and writing journey here. I touched the computer for the first time when I was 12. The prominent things at that time were MS-DOS, Windows, Word Perfect, Batch Programming, perhaps LOGO programming (faint memories on this), and the games like Prince of Persia (You know 90s kid! 😂). Gradually, my digital skills evolved along with high school and higher education. The skills revolved around HTML, DHTML, CSS, and not much beyond. I had other things to do as well. The limitations can be partly because I did not go to the classes that taught these. Whatever I did was some non-mandatory (at least for me) stuff from the internet. 

Writing, on the other hand, had been somehow mandatory as long as I had remained a university student. I remember a fictional story that I wrote in Nepali, on paper. One of my best friend from high school said that he really liked the plot, and the association of the protagonist with the nature and his virtual sister. Unfortunately, I lost those pages while I moved my room. 

During high school, and mostly during my undergraduate studies, I learned more of ICT skills than writing skills. It was again during my graduate studies and later life, I became more immersed in reading, writing, and mostly contemplating- on world issues of environment, society and education (of course).

While contemplating and thinking on those somehow wicked world problems, I realise that time has taken the internet technology to next level; and I had been somehow happy with the basics.

Nevertheless, I believe that I am now equipped with skills on domain management, content writing and publishing, SEO, Content Management Systems (WordPress, Blogger, Joomla), GitHub Pages, and so on. Do I need to mention things like Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Internet Browsing, YouTube Channel, Facebook Page stuffs? I do not want to make the list heavy with petty stuffs here. Ohh! I nearly forgot to mention that I have been taught some digital skills (ICT Skills and Information Skills required for Master’s Degree students) at UEF, the Alma Mater that I am really proud of. I was in a great delusion that I was great enough in MS-Word before I was challenged by the teacher to start the page number of the report from the 3rd page, after Cover Page and TOC.

The teacher of DigiPedagogy really made me aware that juggling things on internet is never a bad thing for our academic side as long as we are progressing each day to the required extent as expected by our institutions. In fact, it may support in enhancing our digital skills which would eventually support growth of our academic sphere. She also said that maintaining e-portfolio can help in getting the aspired job. And yes, Finns apply for open jobs using the goddamn video portfolio where they are found saying- Hire me, or you will regret! Don’t click to close the window if you find such a video quite boring, listen to the strongest accent of nordic English; for you would like to judge the book just not by cover but by its content.

I related this with myself. I have been a teacher of science, and mostly environmental science, and health and physical education. I started my teaching career in late 2000s and continued in Nepal till mid 2010s before going to Europe for higher studies. I have always remained interested on global issues (environment and development), human geography, anthropological studies, and mostly on the agenda of education for sustainability. I started writing blogs which would not have much readerships. I believe that the world has scores and scorse of flesh-and-bone headed individuals who are after petty things than the real and mighty ones. The algorithms of TikTok and YouTube have hijacked the minds of many ones. This is one story of the world. However, when it comes to some unfinished business of mine, I believe that I am almost ready doing a ground-breaking (Sorry, I might be exaggerating here!) research on pedagogical human geography using the qualitative approach (Those who are familiar with place-based theories, count on me!). And still, I honestly feel like I am quite behind in quantitative research, and use of stuffs like GIS, Python and R.

Who knows? I never give up!

Saying so, I think out loud, and question myself. Am I worthless with my limitations? If I can not drive, and I do not have a car, am I left behind in the race of something? What is the limit of learning skills? Or is the race itself worth try? Why is the world going that way? Why are people running this way? Why is algorithm of the internet so? Who will listen to my voices then? How can I make people listen to me? And, honestly, besides raising questions and trying to express my feelings, I do not currently have clear answer for these. Maybe, I can write some fuzzy thoughts. Can’t I just write my feelings on paper and read for myself at my quiet time? Aggh, I must stop myself losing a grip here.

Let me come to the point now. So, why did I (re)start my personal blog here? Am I trying to make an e-portfolio here? Maybe the answer to these and above questions can be found in my blogs. I created this free blog because I really wanted an economic freedom while I live minimalist life and do things around. Thanks to Mercantile Communications Pvt. Ltd. for registering my domain name for free and GitHub for hosting my pages/posts. Gratitude also goes to Jekyll, and Beautiful Jekyll’s developer.

***Relevant Ideas***

* [Getting .np Domain for Free for Nepalese](https://www.bhavana.com.np/get-a-free-dot-np-domain/)
