---
layout: post
title: Preparing for the Google Cloud Professional Network Engineer certification
subtitle: In this blog I cover Google Cloud’s Professional Network Engineer certification and offer my advice and guidance on preparing to become a certified Google Cloud Professional Cloud Database Engineer.
#description: ""
#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/pcdbe/googlecloudprofessionalclouddatabaseengineerbadge.png
share-img: /assets/img/pcdbe/googlecloudprofessionalclouddatabaseengineerbadge.png
readtime: true
share-title: "How to prepare for the Google Cloud Professional Cloud Database Engineer certification"
share-description: "In this blog I cover Google Cloud’s Professional Cloud Database Engineer certification and offer my advice and guidance on preparing to become a certified Google Cloud Professional Cloud Database Engineer."
share-img: /assets/img/pca/googlecloudprofessionalclouddatabaseengineerbadge.png
tags: [Google Cloud Professional Cloud Database Engineer, PCDBE, Certification, Exam]
---

* toc
{:toc}

The Google Cloud Network Engineer certification is one of the most challenging Google Cloud certifications. This is probably due to the majority of Google Cloud customers I have worked with being enterprise customers, and my engagement is usually in regards to migrating and modernising their applications to Google Cloud rather than designing and implementing the initial network architecture.
This was my second time recertifying my CNE, and it was good to see new topics following the exam being revamped. This included the introduction of hierarchical firewall policies, VPC service controls and Network Information Cenrtre. The exam guide provides a breakdown percentage for the weight of content covered in the exam. Personally I found there to be a lot of VPN related questions. Fortunately this is an area I refreshed on prior to the certification as I have limited real world exposure to VPN connectivity- the clients ihave worked with have all had dedicated or partner interconnects. It’s good to have an understanding of the maximum bandwidth supported for HA VPN, how many active tunnels are recommended, how to increase the speed of each, how to configure BGP peering, the APIPA range used for BGP peers and how to share routes to and from on premise. 
As to be expected, routing related questions took a large part of the exam. It’s key to understand BGP, default VPC routing modes, what routing options are available if on premise doesn’t support BGP, and how to configure custom routes.
Shared VPC host projects, and service projects.
Routing traffic via IDS. Packet mirroring, and 
Customising default routes- configuring VPC to route via a device instead of direct to internet.
VPC service controls- how to enforce connections to services that only support VPC SC, how to enforce access to Google Cloud API’s and services without routing over the internet and how to configure DNS in order to route private.googleapis.com or restricted.googleapis.com.
Interconnects another hot topic- when to favour dedicated vs partner, VLAN attachment, how to increase bandwidth of VLAN attachments.
From an IAM perspective, there wasn’t a lot of questions. I would recommend reviewing the roles of network admin vs security admin and the differences between each.
Logging- identify routing failure issues from logs, relevant filters for components.
VPC flow logs, how to enable, how there work, when to use them.
Firewall rules- defining correct priority, integrating with hierarchical firewall policies, how to defer to next levwl,
Load balancers- cloud armour and protection it can offer to external https load balancer. When to select network load balancer, when to opt for TCP load balancer.
Internl load balancer in front of IDS?
GKE CLUSTwr sizing, default number of pods, how to configure with out RFC1918 ange (also similar for VPC network design). Configuring private GKE cluster. Accessing private clusters. Thwsse quetions brought a welcome relief due to a lot of familiarility day to dy ith GKE.
